# OSEP Review

# Overview

The **PEN-300: Advanced Evasion Techniques and Breaching Defenses** is a fun, comprehensive, **challenging,** and enjoyable course. This course includes a (comprehensive) PDF document, videos, and some challenges for practice. The course PDF is particularly useful in helping me understand the concepts explained throughout the course, from developing process hollowing executables and obfuscated VBA codes, to a comprehensive Active Directory exploitation. There are so many new techniques taught that there are almost no overlaps with the PEN-200 (Penetration Testing with Kali Linux) course. In fact, this course assumes you have most of the PEN-200 knowledge, and builds on top of these knowledge by introducing concepts such as Antivirus Evasion, Firewalls, and Application Whitelisting, and trains you to avoid or break through these defenses. Due to such defenses, the course is challenging, as you could be stucked for hours not knowing why a reverse shell was not obtained, even after trying multiple different payloads, encoders or encrypters. Therefore needing to “Try Harder”.

# Challenges

There are a total of six challenges included in the course material. The first three challenges are quite a warm-up, and it gets harder from the fourth challenge onwards. The challenges were difficult but fun, and I took almost a week of continuous days and nights to complete all of them. By the time I completed the sixth challenge, I registered the exam for the next day (yes I’ve regretted it at one point during the exam).

# Exam

The exam is 48 hours long and is proctored. I started my exam on 28 July 2024 00:00 GMT, which is 08:00 local time. First, I read through the exam objectives, and started enumerating the targets. After about thirty minutes, I finally figured out the exploit method for one of the targets, but could not obtain a reverse shell for the next thirty minutes due to its defenses. After “Trying Harder”, I managed to obtain initial foothold on the first target, broke more defenses, and privilege escalated. I then went for a break ranting in my head that “this was one of the hardest and trickiest initial foothold I’ve ever tried”. Afterwards, I proceed to enumerate the compromised host, and after **TEN hours** (with short breaks in between) of continuous enumeration, testing, debugging, and head scratching, I thought that this marks the end of the exam, and painfully went for a break, reflecting if I came into the exam too underprepared. I wondered, that I have already tried all possible methods that I’ve learnt, but to no avail. However, I did not give up and after a bit more testing, I got a shell popped on the second target! That was the greatest feeling of satisfaction ever, and the feeling of being truly rewarded by this course. Then I spent the next 3 hours on the next target, pretty confident (yet ironically doubting) the exploit path, as I was testing and debugging why my shellcode did not trigger a reverse shell. Again, after “Trying Harder”, I got into the next target. But this was really tiring, and I was anxious that I am doing things too slowly and was severely behind time, so I did not dared to take a long rest. By 02:00 local time, I’ve already gotten 80 out of 100 points to pass. Knowing that I really need a sleep, I went to sleep at 03:00 and woke up at 08:00. I was really tired still, so I had a coffee and continued with the enumeration. By afternoon, I’ve already achieved 110 points. However, I did not managed to get to final objective and obtain secret.txt. So I quickly screenshot the necessary details and documented everything, and proceeded to challenge myself to hit the final objective. By evening, I’ve achieved 130 points and secret.txt. I felt really rewarding and relieved then. Afterwards, I tried to continue exploiting more targets, but I knew that Offsec is really strict with the documentation requirements, so I had to prioritise double-checking and triple-checking the screenshots. By then, it was already 1am and I was really tired. I tried to push myself to exploit more targets but by 4am I knew that I could not push myself any further, so I requested to end the exam 4 hours earlier and went for a sleep. I woke up at 10:00, tidied up my report and submitted it in the afternoon. The next day, I received an email from Offsec:

> *“We are happy to inform you that you have successfully completed the Evasion Techniques and Breaching Defenses certification exam and have obtained your Offsec Experienced Penetration Tester (OSEP) certification.”*
> 

# Conclusion

This course is really challenging but rewarding at the same time. The concepts taught are very useful and applicable in the real-world. If you enjoyed the PEN-200 course, you would likely enjoy this course as well. I have created my own cheatsheet ([https://whitebear82.github.io/qca/qcarefined](https://whitebear82.github.io/qca/qcarefined)) and hope that it would help anyone out.